
4
PHOTO CREDIT: MATT KARTOZIAN - USA TODAY SPORTS
Sven Baertschi Leaves Game with Illness
SEPTEMBER 28, 2017, 8:40 PM | J.D. BURKE
The second period of the Vancouver Canucks pre-season game against the Calgary Flames is at an end, and Sven Baertschi didn’t play a second of it. In fact, Baertschi never even came out of the locker room after the first intermission.

Twitter Ads info and privacy
There’s been no word on what exactly happened to Baertschi to keep him from game action from the Canucks, and they’ve yet to comment on his status for the remainder of the game. One theory put forward by The Province’s Ben Kuzma is that Baertschi was hurt on a collision with Flames defenceman Dougie Hamilton in the first period.

Baertschi last skated at the very end of the first period. In tonight’s game, the Canucks’ winger played 4:59 and was minus-one in on-ice shot attempt differential.

The Canucks, who are already down Bo Horvat, could be facing a scenario where two-thirds of their second line from last season are on the shelf to finish the pre-season. Obviously, you never want to see anyone get hurt, but this could open the door for an early season audition for some of the Canucks youngsters on the bubble.

Then again, this could just as easily be a precautionary move by the Canucks, and we’ll see Baertschi as soon as Saturday’s game. Let’s hope for that.

Update:

Sportsnet’s Dan Murphy is reporting that it’s not an injury that’s keeping Baertschi from the Canucks lineup, but an illness. That’s welcome news for everyone involved, I am sure.

 Follow
Dan Murphy ?@sportsnetmurph
#canucks PR saying Baertschi out with illness.
8:40 PM - Sep 28, 2017
 5 5 Replies   4 4 Retweets   7 7 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
SEE ALSO
 
Baerstchi to miss remaining two games with neck injury
6 MONTHS AGO
 
Canucks Army Post-Game: Christmas Holidaze
9 MONTHS AGO
 
Canucks Army Year in Review: Sven Baertschi
3 MONTHS AGO
4 COMMENTS |  SORTED BY DATE	
 PLEASE SIGN UP OR SIGN IN TO COMMENT.


Cageyvet
1 DAY AGO
Good news. Sven has looked good the entire preseason. He looks like he’s on his game, and he will be motivated to perform and earn a healthy raise.

0 TRASHES 
2 CHEERS 
REPLY

Ragnarok Ouroboros
21 HOURS AGO
They say it’s good news that Sven Baertschi only has an illness, but doesn’t that really depend on the illness? If he has a cold that is fine, but if it’s the Bubonic plague well then that’s not so fine. It’s kind of a matter of perspective.

1 TRASHES 
1 CHEERS 
REPLY

